If you're a company trying to find
success using AI, it's a dangerous space
because I think there's a lot of things
that are scratching an itch today that
the foundation model providers might do
tomorrow. So, you're sort of playing
with fire. A lot of B2B software is
people building things and convincing
customers they want it rather than
deeply listening to a customer's
problem. Now is a good time to start a
company statistically because large
language models are a fundamental new
breakthrough in technology that will
transform the economy. It opens the door
sort of shuffles the deck of this power
that incumbents have versus startups
because incumbents in addition to having
a lot of resources have an existing
business model which might be disrupted
by this new technology.
What is good advice you received the
last time you were an entrepreneur that
you think is BS? Now
minus one to zero is about turning the
illeible into the inevitable. We started
SPC 10 years ago with the mission of
helping founders figure out their life's
work about helping people navigate that
amorphous phase where you have ambition
but the ideas are still crystallizing
and taking shape and focus. SPC is
designed to help you discard the good
ideas in search of the great ones and to
help you find your global maximum by
leaving behind a local maximum. We
believe in taking your time but as fast
as you can. So go ahead and apply for
the SPC Founder Fellowship so we can
help you turn the illeible into the
inevitable.
Welcome everyone.
It's kind of hot in here. Uh we got a
lot of folks. Um so I'm going to dive
right into it. Um I don't think Brett
needs much introduction.
I'll just say that uh at least from a
personal perspective, Brett is one of
the best builders I think I've ever
worked with. And I use the word builder
because I think it applies to writing
software, building companies, um
building early stage products, latestage
products, mentoring other teams. So, um
you know, I know you've had a long and
illustrious career. I won't walk through
all of that, but I'll start with maybe a
fun question. Brett, do you think if uh
wipe coding was a thing in 2004,
uh you could have wipe coded your way to
Google Maps?
Well, it's interesting because that
story, which thanks to Paul Bukhai, has
sort of made the rounds at this point,
I'm not sure would have been that
remarkable in some ways. is I mean it's
sort of like I um have you all seen the
movie Hidden Figures about the women who
are calculators at NASA and now you know
it's sort of like the movie is
remarkable because that job existed you
know and that story of like oh I rewrote
Google Maps over a weekend it's like
yeah who doesn't you know it's like AI
agents you know and so I think I sort of
hope that story will be like talking
about the human calculators at NASA like
wow people did that you know and uh
that's what's kind of fun about right
now I
AI
is both very exciting and a little scary
because it's very exciting because um
it's pretty magical. Um it can do things
we were just talking about moments ago.
There's aspects of it that already feel
super intelligent. You know, it's not
quite true general intelligence, but
it's pretty remarkable that I think it
probably surpasses what most of us would
have defined as a GI 3 years ago
already. And we just keep on moving the
goalposts. But it's changing our jobs.
And notably, I think there's this
interesting meta point which is we in
the software industry are probably
disrupting our own job almost as much as
any other. And I can't think of much
historical precedent for something like
that.
But I like it. Um I actually like the
fact that what made me like a
distinctive engineer in 200 it was
actually 2005
when I did this.
Um is obiated by technology. Uh I think
that's kind of cool. like it doesn't
stress me out. But I and I think like
what would the 10x engineer 3 years from
now look like? It's probably a
completely different set of skills and
that's I think that's really exciting.
So that's why I'm like more looking
forward and I hope it's like a vestage
of the paths.
This is interesting though. Now I feel
as though the stakes for every hackathon
just have gone up massively because you
know like you're supposed to build much
who can operate the code generating
machine the fastest.
Yeah, exactly. I mean what can you build
in eight hours, right? Um you know Brett
when we do these talks one of my
questions is you know tell me about the
minus one journey of a particular
project or company that is hard for you
because you have done so many you know
you've done friend feed Facebook quip um
Salesforce now Sierra so instead I'll
ask maybe you to zoom out and
I'm not sure I deserve the minus one
credit for Facebook or Salesforce you
know thank you thank you for that Um
what is your process? I mean a lot of
the folks here are in some version of
some part of the minus one journey
trying to figure out what are
interesting problems to work on but what
what has been your process like you know
as you've been in between you know
Google and friend feed right like or in
between Facebook and quib how did you
like navigate those early days of
figuring out what to work on build
conviction um what was your process for
that
yeah I'll try to I could give a really
long answer and I'll try not to because
I think I've gotten better at the minus
to one to zero phase and you learn
things the hard way along the my social
network was only popular in Turkey,
Italy and Iran. So could have, would
have, should have.
I remember it was popular in Turkey.
It was very popular in Turkey. I still
have Turkish people come up to me and
talk about it. Um,
but let's just say maybe not a viable
long-term business. Uh, despite the
affection the Turkish people hold for
me. Um,
uh, I I actually often start with either
market shifts or platform shifts. If you
look at the history of technology uh
companies and you look at the top
companies in the stock market, Apple and
Microsoft were born in the birth of the
PC and the micro computer and they
contributed to the those technologies.
But because the PC was such a
significant new invention, it changed a
lot. It it changed it probably why there
was such a huge productivity boost in in
the '9s if you look at sort of economic
data. and they are now multi-t trillion
dollar companies. If you look at the
growth of the internet, you have Google,
you have Amazon, two of the other very
large companies, but you have a lot of
others that aren't in the trillions like
PayPal and eBay and a number of others.
And you look at the birth of the
smartphone and and you've taken the
internet, you've now connected the world
with it and it opens the door to
WhatsApp and Door Dash and and and
others. So I think now is a good time to
start a company statistically because I
think if you uh like I assume many of
you in the room believe large language
models are a fundamental new
breakthrough in technology that will
transform the world and transform the
economy. It opens the door sort of
shuffles the deck of this the power that
incumbents have versus startups because
incumbents in addition to having a lot
of resources have an existing business
model which might be disrupted by this
new technology. They might have a
platform that is uh structurally
incompatible with like the AI native
version of that new technology. They
might have standard in innovators
dilemma. They might have bureaucracy.
They might have regulation. They might
have all these other things. So all of a
sudden when these new technologies come
out it opens a door like there's like a
crack in the foundation of the market
that usually is controlled by the the
incumbents and that's where new startups
can grow and uh if the markets are big
enough they can turn into the next
incumbents and and you end up in the
cycle. Uh so I started
friend feed because I was at Google and
we launched the Google maps API which
was very novel for its time. Uh but
basically the idea you could embed a
Google map in your application which you
know Yelp and Trullia and all these
companies did it kind of created this
really they called them mashups at the
time. I no one use that word anymore but
it created this and and it was
interesting all those companies had
again I'll use a word like it's old like
information superighway but they called
them userenerated content like the idea
that the web was not only read only but
read write was a novelish concept of
Facebook being probably the most
prominent company in that space and
Google just wasn't interested in it as
much like every time I was trying to you
know uh advocate for an idea to make our
products not I didn't use towards social
but just like make enable our user base
to contribute to them. It didn't it sort
of fell in deaf ears and you it just
didn't feel like there was like uh
passion around that. So I left because I
wanted to play a part in what I thought
was this like really significant new
trend on the internet. I started quip
because uh when you and I were at
Facebook
uh we the smartphone became ubiquitous.
Um it was a very challenging very
awkward transition for us. uh you know
it benefited Facebook over the long
term. Adichu and I were independently
responsible for some very bad and some
very good decisions uh in that process
and I became really excited about what's
the impact of mobile on the enterprise
and dove into that space and then with
Sierra uh you know we can go into more
of it but I really believe in those
moments and I think if there's one
lesson that I wish I had could give to
my my younger self is focusing a little
bit less in the technology and more on
the customer need. Um I think I part of
it was just life experience. I didn't
know much about business. So, you know,
I didn't have the intuition I have now
about where these technologies could
drive a real business outcome. But I do
think that like if I look around a lot
of startups, if I have a critical eye to
it, a lot of them are very um
extrapolations of the technology rather
than a projection of the technology on a
on a business problem. And I think
that's where real value is unlocked. Um
I going back to it I think the the hard
part is when I was you know 24 or 25 I
just didn't have a lot of contacts in
different industries so it was harder
but I do think that as you're thinking
about how to grow a sustainable business
linearly extrapolating from the
technology is rarely the foundation of a
great company and I think that's like
the the ultimate challenge for a young
entrepreneur.
You know, it's interesting. Um,
we'll dig into that in a second, but I
just want to point out, I mean, Brett is
a legendary engineer and, um, some of
the code that you guys wrote at Friend
Feed was really good. Um,
thank you.
And I think this is quite rare.
Yours is pretty good, too.
Thank you. Um, you know, this is quite
rare, but I think my co-founder from
Cove, uh, is actually in the audience
today. He lives in India. he happens to
be visiting. But at Cove, you know, we
tried out a bunch of different like, you
know, web servers and we eventually just
modified Tornado because it was the best
that we could find in Python and we
loved that thing. Yeah,
that was my like right when we got
acquired, I rewrote our web server and
open sourced it and it's been very
popular ever since. So
amazing. Um, but maybe the question I
would ask Brett is um,
so clearly at friend feed your minus one
exploration just like let's just go
build this thing. Let's just write
something. Let's write a bunch of good
code. Let's figure out like, you know,
how do we create a pro? Is that the same
approach you took for Sierra or did you
take a much more customer set go talk to
people? Because I think sometimes it's
easy for us to you know kind of in some
ways theorize about minus one but a lot
of what we try to get people to do at
SPC is that you got to start producing
some artifacts like you know write some
code you know push some pixel pixels or
go talk to people and you know what how
do you navigate that?
Uh at Sierra we started pretty
differently. I actually started with a
more formal discovery process of
chatting with different folks I knew in
different industries and asking them for
advice but not advice in the tell me how
to build a company sense of saying like
what are the problems that you would
like AI to solve at your company. Um and
so doing real structured discovery. Um I
don't think he even knows this so maybe
he's watching right now but actually the
reason why we ended up where we are at
SER was a gentleman named Anthony Tan
who's the CEO of Grab. So I had known
him uh professionally and uh ended up
doing a very late he's in Singapore so
was like 9:30 p.m. uh Zoom with him and
he was just talking about how much he
wish uh you know uh AI could solve
customer experience and customer
service. They serve a lot of different
markets and it was a really big complex
part of his company.
And that was one of, you know, 10 15
conversations with folks that I knew in
my network. And um I'm really grateful
we did that because uh I think
especially with large language models
are capable of so much. It's like it
it's very easy to have a uh kind of a
solution in search of a problem kind of
mindset around the technology. Um and
those conversations we structured very
specifically. So I started with very
broad conversations. uh what are the
problems you wish uh we could solve, you
know, in in general. And then by the
time we had um thought about the impact
of agents to offer customer experience,
we ended up sort of with increasingly
high fidelity conversations like more or
less if we built this would you buy it?
Not quite that transactional. Um and we
learned a lot through that process. Um I
I think that largely applies to B2B
software. I think there's a bit uh
consumers is a very different market. Um
but I'm very grateful that we did that.
Um and and again going back to some of
the mistakes I've made in in previous uh
companies,
I I think that like a lot of companies
say they're customer centric, but I
think a lot of it's I think
there's just a lot of a lot of B2B
software is people building things and
convincing customers they want it rather
than deeply listening to a customer's
problem. That doesn't mean you literally
do what they want. There's the famous
Henry Ford quote about, you know, they
would have said they wanted a faster
horse, but do you deeply understand the
problems you're solving for your
customers? Uh, one of our values at
Sierra is customer obsession, which is
not a very unique value, but one of the
sentences in that value is we judge our
success by the outcomes we drive for our
customers, not technical milestones. Um,
and I think that's uh really important
for those of you developing software for
companies. If you don't understand
actually who like what actual business
problem you're solving and not not
literally what the maybe project manager
is telling you, but what the CEO of the
company cares about, you will miss out
on key insights in in your product. And
that's something, as I said, I've sort
of learned through there's lots of
battle scars under this sweater that
I've learned that the hard way. So,
do you think you learned that at
Salesforce? cuz I frankly I mean I've
worked at some amazing companies. I
don't think I've ever worked at a
company that was truly customer
obsessed. Like that's not Facebook,
that's not Dropbox. Those are amazing
consumer companies. Um and I think part
of the reason why despite everyone
saying that they're that I think very
few companies that actually are is that
there isn't enough of that, you know,
kind of lineage and DNA in Silicon
Valley. So
I agree. I actually I definitely learned
it at Salesforce. I mean, not not at the
expense of the other companies I've
worked for, but uh you know, I remember
going to Salesforce and it was right
before Dreamforce and the main question
I had is like, why do over a 100,000
people show up every year for an
enterprise software conference? Like, I
don't get it. It's like a religious
revival. I don't I don't get it. Who are
these people? What do they do for a
living? Um and and you really start to
see in that company like just a true uh
devotion to the customer base, to the
ecosystem, and and you can see it by
that remarkable display. Probably all of
you like don't drive into San Francisco
that week because of the traffic. Um
it's remarkable. And so what I liked
about it though going back um you know,
you and I have had the privilege of
working for different remarkable
companies. Um I I like I'm like an
anthropologist of remarkable companies
because they're so different. Google was
so different than Facebook, yet both
remarkably successful. Salesforce could
not have been more different than Google
and Facebook, you know, very different
type of company, but it's remarkably
successful. And I like to deeply
understand why rather than have this
like uh I remember going into Facebook
and you were so receptive, but there
were some folks I won't name who are
just like, I hate Google, we're better.
And I'm like, you're like different, you
know, like it's just a different DNA.
And I do. And what I took away from that
experience though was if you're creating
a software that serves businesses, those
businesses better be the first and last
thing you think about in every decision
that you make. Uh and consumer companies
have the best ones focus on the user,
but the bad ones look at a dashboard of
metrics. And uh and you know, there's a
difference between user obsession and
growth hacking, just like there's a
difference between selling software and
being customercentric. And I just try to
we just try to create a culture that you
know lives and breathes our customer
success in everything that we do.
That's a great analogy by the way kind
of like you know user like delight
versus kind of growth hacking and kind
of selling software versus being
customer obsessed. There's this weird
kind of dichotomy right where you're
supposed to be resilient. You're
supposed to kind of like be gritty.
You're supposed to kind of like keep on
like climbing the hill until you figure
it out. So that's one narrative. And the
other narrative is like there's zero
sunk cost in the early days, fail fast,
figure it out, you know, who cares? You
have, you know, so few users. So like
how how does a founder in the minus one
stage kind of balance that dichotomy
between having patience yet at the same
time like it's like why are you devoted
to something that has no users?
It's the right question because you have
the stories like uh you know the Airbnb
founders failing so many times. Uh, I
think it's a little bit dangerous to
fixate on those myths because you could
be that person who has zero users
forever and that's a much less exciting
story than Airbnb. Um, I I I don't like
the idea of failing fast. Um, I think uh
I think it's very important to have a
thesis about what you're building and
why. Some versions of fail fast to me
feel like throwing ideas at the wall
with no rhyme or reason. If you have a
thesis about where the world is going
and you have uh an interaction with a
user or an interaction with a customer,
you can find signal in those
interactions. Um and uh and I and if you
don't have a thesis, it's just very hard
to like judge the the you know they
didn't click on the button or they
didn't make the purchase. Why? And if
you're not judging it through the lens
of a like a higher goal that uh for
example we will you know the when you
call the the phone of a consumer
software company an AI agent will pick
up the phone not a call center you know
that's a thesis that that we have and
and you can hold you that can be
something that you believe in like but
how you manifest a company that solves
that problem that's the design space
that you're working in. So, I think it's
very important if you're starting a
company, you have a view of the future
that you're running towards. Uh, and
that's where I think you can have really
obsessive conviction. Um, and and you
might be wrong, but that's that's why
this stuff is hard or everyone would do
it. Um, and then you need to have, you
know, strong opinions weekly held on
sort of the how.
The thing I would say is I think it's
very important to drive honest signals
to your ideas. is in the early days. Um,
uh, one of my pieces of advice to B2B
software companies is like sell your
software. And what I mean by that is
like don't give it away for free. Don't
like just let people use it and get
their feedback verbally. That seems
good, but everyone's like, "Oh yeah,
it's great. I love it. Yeah, it's
awesome." And you're like, "Well, you
pay for it." Oh, uh, well, you know,
next quarter I'll think about it. You
know, maybe when we get this project
done.
and and you if you believe what they're
saying, you'll be like, "Oh, next
quarter they're going to do it." What
they're really telling you is you
haven't created something valuable
enough to buy. That's a very polite way
of it's like when you you know, so you
break up with someone, you say, "It's
not you, it's me." It's it's you, you
know, like that's just the honest truth.
And so
like I think the only symbol like signal
you can get in capitalism is like
exchanging money for goods and services.
And so if you're not actually like
seeking out these signals in what you're
doing, you're not actually getting
signals from the market. And so I think
it's very important to have like a
thesis about the world where the world
is going. I think it's perfectly
reasonable to be unreasonable about that
thesis. That's why entrepreneurs are are
often contrarian and all that stuff. You
should be open-minded that the approach
you're taking is is incorrect. And you
should seek out real market signals.
Like you because I think it's the
narrative building is the biggest danger
in startups. Like, oh well, this company
didn't like it for these reasons, but
really they're not representative or
they're wrong. And if every single one
of your prospects there's some
justifiable reason why they're not
representative, maybe it's you. Um, and
I think it's very important to like
force yourself to have honest
conversations with the market. Brett,
what do you think is different about
starting a company today in kind of the
AI world versus, you know, kind of the
other companies you have started? I'll
describe right now it's very hard to
predict the future future like more than
a few years from now. We're happy to
talk about that, but um, you know, with
the marginal cost of creating software
is going to zero, like I have no idea
what we're all going to be doing in
three years. I mean, I'm just kidding.
But it's complicated, but right now this
market does feel different. Um, I
graduated from university in 2002, which
was uh or my undergrad anyway. And uh at
when I got to Stanford in 1998, it was
the peak of the dotcom bubble at
Stanford. So, it was like insane. Like
it's amazing.
I never bought food because you just go
to the computer lab and there's free
pizza sponsored by a startup, which is
great by the way. And and then by 2002
there's like tumble weed blowing through
the same computer lab. And so it's just
a really interesting time and it feels a
bit like that and and I've made this
argument before but I believe it which
is uh when I say.com bubble often people
who are around then or study it think of
the failures pets.com and buy.com and
you know all these companies that had
Super Bowl ads many of whom went public
by the way and just don't exist anymore.
But then you look at the top of the
stock market and you have Amazon and
Google alone which represent a huge
percentage of the S&P 500. And then you
look at a number of the others like the
eBays and the PayPal's world and you're
like man if I could have an index fund
including pets.com but as long as it
included Google and Amazon that was
pretty good. So actually with the
benefit of hindsight all the hype maybe
was justified. Uh and it just there were
some really really transformative
companies that actually transformed the
economy just as much as everyone said it
would by the way. Uh and there's also
some bad companies. So kind of if you
draw forward I think AI is similar where
you know if you went back to 1999 and we
said what are the big markets on the
internet we probably would have included
commerce and search almost certainly it
wasn't like oh my gosh what a clever
idea searching the internet you know
like everyone knew it
just like today you would say software
engineering customer service you know
you could list the industries impacted
by large language models we're almost
certainly right like it's not like the
idea is complicated but it's a you know
we're trying to we're leader in the
market at Sierra for customer service.
We have to like we are not entitled to
that lead and just like you have the the
fight to the death with cursor and wind
surf and all these others.
So it feels a lot like that market to me
where I think uh those of us close to
the market it's very clear which parts
of the economy will be impacted. There
are some that might surprise us as well.
I think we're right. I think it will be
very impacted and there's billions of
dollars of spend in all these markets
and now the free market is playing out
of who gets to write the history books
Amazon or buy.com Google or Alta Vista
right and uh it turns out like most of
you probably don't even know what Alta
Vista is it was a search engine it was a
really big deal at the time you know and
and that's the thing you know Victors
write the history books um the thing
that is there's a few things different
though there's been all these neat
graphs about like the compounding
effects of technology Um, you know, when
the internet came out, I don't know how
many PCs were in the world, but we
plateaued in the early 2000s around two
billion PCs is my understanding. So, we
didn't reach quite the Microsoft vision
of a PC on every desktop. It reached
mainly the Western world in the business
world. Then since then though, we had
smartphones and now there's more
smartphones than people and we've more
or less connected the whole world on the
internet. And now you have AI and the
economic opportunity is is huge probably
independent of those technologies but
now you have these uh rails on which you
can deliver this technology fairly
seamlessly to the whole world at the
same time. So the growth is just
extraordinary. Uh like reading about
cursor's revenue numbers I mean I'm like
holy like like and and like you and
you check it once a month and it's like
you've created five new companies in
that time period. So I think we've just
we're like it's like the dot bubble in
the s through mind lens which is
actually it was a justified level of
excitement but on like superdrive like
you know on on 10x speed and uh that's
uh insane. Uh you know I I'm the
chairman of openai. I run a fairly
successful applied AI company and I have
trouble keeping up with everything going
on. I'm probably most well situated in
the world almost to do so. So, it just
feels insane uh to me right now. I think
it's exciting though. I think it's a
privilege to be like sitting here with
all of you and I hope you're enjoying
being in this moment because you know I
think our society will be very different
10 years from now and like all of you
are in the middle of it. Um and that's
pretty exciting and I don't think
there's many other times in history
where you get to like know you're in the
middle of something that's significant.
So, I like pinch myself every day. It's
like you definitely need to just be like
ride the wave. It's like you wake up
every morning and you just can't control
it. Like you know the wave's coming. You
just ride the wave. Yeah. This like if
you're but if you're a control freak,
you're not going to know everything.
There's going to be a bunch of stuff
happening. There's probably three more
competitors to your thing that you
haven't heard of
in this conversation. Three new
competitors.
Somebody came up. It's all good. Just
like, you know, ride the wave. Um, so
maybe you know, Brett, the the question
I'd ask is what are some fantastic ways
to do stupid things with funding that
people receive uh for AI companies cuz
you know I think one of the lessons
maybe from history is that yeah you know
like Alta Vista, Infosek, LIOS all of
those folks
I'm impressed with.
Yeah. So they probably made a bunch of
like you know dumb mistakes in
retrospect. So what do you see happening
today that you might be like actually
these feel like maybe not you know not
you know for instance you know we talked
about this a little bit earlier that if
you're really out there trying to build
like a general purpose foundation model
from scratch maybe that's not worth it
you know um but are there other examples
of this that you find that you know
people are not being objective enough or
cleareyed enough about where the value
is
yeah I'll start with that example I
think roughly I think there's there's
probably more but the three areas of the
AI market that I think are fairly clear
and fairly exciting. One is uh frontier
models. Um uh unfortunately for all of
you in the room, unless you work at
OpenAI or Anthropic or Google, you know,
or or Meta, you know, you're probably
not, you know, building one of those
RXs, uh excuse me. There it requires so
much capital that it is uh will tend
towards consolidation. um there's not
really a way to finance the level of
compute that you need to build one of
these models unless you're a hyperscaler
or in partnership one of these
hyperscalers. Um and as a consequence
just like there's not a like indie data
center market uh right now there's not
going to be an indie frontier model
market either. Um, but it's it's
obviously an extremely important market
and and all of the companies in the room
will probably pay taxes to all of these
companies to license and lease their
models to run inference. Then there's
the AI tools market. Um, I think this is
a tough market to be in, but really
interesting because, you know, this is
sort of the proverbial pickaxes in the
gold rush. So, if you're a company or
trying to find success using AI, what
are all the things that you need to do?
There's some really interesting
companies in this space um you know uh
and and you know from 11 Labs and others
that are sort of like selling I think
really valuable technology around it. Um
it's a dangerous space though because I
think there's a lot of things that are
you know scratching an itch today that
the foundation model providers might do
tomorrow. So you're sort of playing with
fire. But if you look at the cloud
market as an analogy there's a lot of
big companies in the space too. uh
Snowflake, Data Bricks, Confluent, you
know, like all these kind of like if
you're going to the cloud, what what
tools do you need to be successful? So,
you're going to find a lot of
competition with the foundation model
providers, but you also there can be
some really meaningful companies um
created from it as well. And then
there's the applied AI company and I
think the what were SAS applications and
and you know 2010 will be agent
companies and and uh 2030 in my opinion.
Um, I think they'll I I obviously a huge
believer in in Sierra, my company.
There's others like Harvey that I love
as well serving the legal market. I
think for a lot of uh job functions
departments, um, you're going to have a
company that builds an agent or agents
that serve the needs of that department,
the need of that job function. uh
whether it's being a parallegal or
answering the phone for a customer
service call and and just like the cloud
market sometimes you want to lease a
server someone you want sometimes you
want to buy a solution to a problem and
I think that's what these agents
companies will do so going back to your
question what's a good way to destroy
your capital in the age of AI if you're
an applied AI company pre-train a model
that's a good way to burn through
millions of dollars these are very fast
depreciating assets there's ones you can
lease there's open source ones like what
the are you doing don't do it. Um
uh
similarly I I think broadly speaking you
know I think
if you look at like the prototypical SAS
company you probably don't think of them
as like an R&D lab just you just like
pick you know pick there's big ones SAP
service now Salesforce Adobe you know
etc but even the you know more modest
sized ones you know ramp rippling and
all these others are just like, you
know, really, really great companies.
You think of them as product companies.
At least that's how my mental model of
them. You know, they're using all the
amazing cloud technology and others to
basically make a really great product
that solves a problem really, really
well. I think that's the way we should
think of agent companies. And I think
too many agent companies focus on trying
to feel hip in a room like this. And you
know they think that means like the more
fancy AI stuff I can say I do daily the
more respect I'll have from my peers
when really if you're you know uh doing
some parallegal task with the customer
cares about that it does it well and if
there's off-the-shelf technologies that
get you there faster and solve your
customer's problem better you should use
them more so broadly speaking I think
there's going to be sort of a
bifurcation of like the research
community towards foundation models and
the alkai full stack engineering
community towards agents. And I think
that's good. I I think that's like I
actually think the world so many
companies right now have to build on the
foundation models directly because
there's not a like an agent that they
can just hire to do the job. And
software is like a lawn. You have to
tend it. No one want no company wants to
uh maintain software. It's just a cost
center. And we've spent the past 25
years convincing them that the total
cost of ownership of building software
is worse than software as a service like
successfully. by the way. Now, like
let's deliver on that value. So, I'm
really excited about the applied AI
market um broadly.
Two more technical questions that I'm
curious about. Um how do you think I
mean what's your take on how are we
going to make progress in terms of just
solving you know memory and longunning
context for these models. It doesn't
feel like we quite have a kind of like a
paradigm for this that makes sense right
now. Curious if you have a point of view
on that. I sort of question the premise
mainly just to like intellectually spar
with you like do you complain that your
computer CPU doesn't have memory
um not cash but yeah
and then you have then you have like and
and similarly if you're like if you have
you know memory in your computer and you
turn off your computer like it didn't
remember what I did and then you like
well that's why you have a hard disk and
they say oh but then if that computer
blows up it doesn't remember and like
well then you have a network data
storage like we've built these layers of
abstraction
computers.
I think with the model I think we've put
a lot of burden on what the model does
and certainly
I what is an agent versus what is a
model and there's like blurry lines
between them and we don't need to get
into like an intellectual debate but I
do think of I think
models you know are extremely effective
at reasoning and especially with really
long context windows and chain of
thought reasoning and you know all the
new techniques of these amazing models
they're really really effective at
reasoning Do we need them to have memory
too or can we build that on the side?
Does every application need the same
memory? Uh what is even memory? You
know, and so my sense is that's to some
degree you're describing the market for
the agent companies in a lot of ways. Um
in the same way if you're building an
analytics tool, your data infrastructure
looks different than if you're building
a CRM. Uh you probably have a columner
data store rather than a traditional
transactional database. Your customers
don't care about any of that. But but we
as engineers know the difference. And so
that's sort of my point on like which
models you choose, what storage systems
facilitate it. Um just like in the early
days of the PC, you know, you had the
spinning disc hard drive and memory and
then we had, you know, flash hard drives
and all these other things like that. I
love that. Uh, if you haven't found it,
there's this Jeff Dean slide on just
like latency numbers all the way from
spinning discs to or like the like CPU
all the way to like going across the
Atlantic and it was like if you're a
systems engineer at Google, you had to
memorize that. I I'm hopeful that we'll
have something similarly kind of like
gnarly for AI because, you know, you
might want uh like ra like a really fast
model with really long context windows
for one thing and you might want to
think a really long time for something
else. And I think that's great. I think
we're going to have different models
with different behaviors that serve
different needs. I think we'll have
different companies that and that's
where some of the AI tooling can be like
maybe there is a canonical correct way
to do memory and that's a interesting
company built around that but maybe it's
different for high frequency trading
than it is for this and that's all
great. So my view is that like do the
models need memory maybe. But I think as
we're building agents on these things,
this is where like the next, you know,
four or five years of innovation, that's
like the help wanted sign for for
companies in this room.
Yeah. Maybe the analogy that I'm
actually searching for is we still don't
know like, you know, like the best part
about Unix is that it's a bunch of like
small decomposible tools that you can
isolate and then kind of like recombine
on the fly. But it it feels as though
not knowing how to do that right now for
models means that we're trying to stuff
everything into the model itself. Uh
which feels yeah it's like pretty hard
to modify an operating system you know.
So I think there's some analogy there.
Yeah it's a really good point actually.
Um showing you know going back to like
when I my first startup which you didn't
mention was my web design company in
high school.
Oh you know
um yeah come on you missed one man. Um,
yeah, at the time like no one knew how
to make websites. So like, you know,
16-year-olds could make a business out
of it. Just like no one knows how to
make agents today. Like we're doing our
best. You're all doing your best.
The LAMP stack, you know, Linux, Apache,
my SQL, PHP. Um, someone said Pearl. I'm
like, no, it's PHP.
PHP. It's definitely PHP.
Get the P right. Um,
you know that by the time it was like
probably when did the I someone could
look it up. Someone could ask Chad to be
call 2001 2002 I don't know somewhere in
there the lamp stuck came into fashion
and then you know by the time if you
were uh you know 19-year-old you'd be
like oh lamp is how you make a website
and it's what you do
and then you know later you had uh you
right it's thanks to things like Google
maps you ended up with this er this word
no one uses anymore called Ajax which is
like but then you ended up with uh like
a lot of early JavaScript
uh frameworks to make web applications
interactive. And then you had things
like React and and Next
and you now if you're making a website,
you know, there's a way you do it and
and it's a billion little lessons we
collectively learned as a software
engineering like you know uh a community
over time and it's just so much easier
to make a website now and so much easier
to make a really complicated website
that like runs client side. It could
even work offline. Like that stuff would
have been a research problem in 1997.
And now it's like, oh, your website
doesn't work offline. What are you a
clown? You know, um, and this is where I
think I think this is how we're going to
evolve on agency. Like I don't I think I
hope like I'll be disappointed if we
look back at the like prompt stuffing,
you know, orchestration garbage we're
doing today and be like, "God, do you
remember back then? Oh, we were such
idiots, you know." And so that's that's
the fun part about this is like what is
the lampstack of building agents? Um is
there a company in that space? Maybe
maybe not. Maybe it's open source. Maybe
it's a best practice. Maybe it's a
design pattern. But this is what we're
all figuring out in real time. And
that's why it's so fun to be a
technologist at this point because, you
know, as much as like maybe writing code
is more of a commodity than it was, the
big ideas and how to make robust agents
at scale have not been invented yet. And
that's pretty awesome. I mean, like what
a fun time to be present and explore
that design space. I I think it's just
like incredibly intellectually
rewarding.
The reason I'm smiling is because every
time I'm vibe coding and I say it
doesn't work, I'm just like, oh, the try
harder like take longer. And I kind of
you should try like there's a gun to my
head and he says he'll shoot me if the
app doesn't work.
That's like this is the best I have.
Just like think harder. Take your time.
You got to play for the empathy on the
models. Yeah.
Uh
um
what I'm curious what makes a great
board member
[Laughter]
I'm like the board fixer of Silicon
Valley at this point. Um I really
believe in boards actually. It's
interesting when I started Sierra
uh the first thing I did was raise
traditional venture capital and create a
board. Uh and Peter Fenton joined our
board. And I had one person ask me like
why'd you do that? You could afford to
finance it yourself. I really believe in
boards. I really believe in surround I
mean
with a uh technology startup um there's
kind of threeish outcomes. Uh one is uh
it goes to zero. Another is you know
some modest outcome because you get
acquired or whatever the heck people are
doing nowadays hiring the founders and
screwing over the employees. Um
the uh sorry salty face.
It's true. I think it's true. Um, and
number three is you create an enduring
company. Uh, and that last outcome is is
what most of us in this room are trying
to do. And it's very hard, but you're
really trying to maximize that out for
the likelihood of that outcome. or even
if you're more just financially
motivated, maximizing expected value
equation. But, you know, adding
surrounding yourself with people who
have an equal stake in what you're
producing and give you good advice and
help you make better decisions is an
extremely valuable thing to do to
maximize the likelihood that you uh
achieve that outcome. And I and I uh
there's actually I I you might know more
about this, but I I wonder what the most
successful like self-funded company of
all time is, but there's not that many
of them. There's a few um you know, like
I think Atlassian was somewhat famously
sort of waited very late, but there's
just you look at most of them and I and
I just like, you know, you don't need to
be a mathematician. Like it's very
statistically unlikely. And I think it's
hard because you know uh do you have
other people vested in your success or
helping you see around corners who have
an angle of the market that you don't
see? So number one which is I think it's
really important to think about who you
whom you uh ask to join your board and
uh finding a great board can I think uh
the the proverbialism is a bad board is
more likely to destroy your company than
a good board to improve. probably true,
but I think you should seek out a great
board, one that actually improves the
likelihood that your company's
successful. Um, the reason why I joined
uh boards was actually
I think being an adviser is very
different than being an operator. Um,
and uh I I really enjoyed exercising
that muscle. Um it's very hard when you
see a problem to not just go fix it if
you're someone like me. And to learn how
to affect outcomes through giving advice
is actually like a really unique skill.
And because I had experienced people
very good at that, you know, I felt that
it was something that uh partly to sort
of pay for the great advice that I had
gotten. I said I want to, you know, play
that role in in other people's lives as
well. Um I I think there's a delicate
balance as a board member on how to be
engaged and involved and not bleed into
you know the operating roles of the
people on the management team. Um I
think it really for me I only work with
boards like I want to work with the
founder or work with the CEO and work
with the management team. So I think it
really comes down to developing like a
great trusted relationship where they
pull you in at the right times and and
you have enough trust that you can give
uh you know real advice that that
changes the shape of the company. I
think it's really valuable though for
those of you who have the maybe you're
already there in your career but if you
started something successful like
whether it's investing like you've done
or joining a board I think this is what
part of the magic of Silicon Valley. Uh
there's just so much great advice. Uh
there's so much capital. Uh, I think
it's a great way to pay it forward. And
I think like I view it as sort of like
an obligation of we're so privileged to
be in this amazing community, uh, find
opportunities for success. Like you you
should help other people, too. And it's
a great way to do it.
Yeah. I mean, that's really well put. I
mean, I I'd say that two things I took
away from that that I think are worth
repeating for most founders is that I
think as a founder, if you're in the
mindset of let me make sure the worstc
case outcome doesn't happen, I think
that's a shitty way of thinking. like
it's much more interesting to say that
what if the best case happens then like
you know do I have the best people
around the table to kind of help me
guide through that. Uh but you're the
you know the common case outcome is that
the company fails right like you
shouldn't be in some ways like trying to
like prevent that unnaturally in some
ways.
Yeah. I mean like we're you're in it to
change the world, right? And so how can
you maximize the chance that you have
the privilege of doing that? And uh and
I think you should have the humility to
know like you don't have all the
answers. None of us do. And and finding
someone who's your intellectual equal
and then having the humility to listen
to their advice too for some people
like Peter is great like I would you
know if I he would be an amazing first
board member at any company. Um, the
second one, at least for boards, is that
I think that I I don't take a ton of
board seats myself, but when I do, my
mental model is I'm going to spend the
time with the founder anyways because I
love what they're working on. I really
want them to succeed. So, if it makes
sense to do it in a way that might be a
little bit more structural, like that
resonates. Um, try to leave some time
for questions from people, but what is
good advice you received the last time
you were an entrepreneur that you think
is BS? Now,
let me think. I don't have a great
answer and that's a very good question
that deserves a good answer. Let me
think I if I background process that and
navigate that into your you know your
context window. Um
you know Brett I mean you you you
started to cover a little bit of this in
terms of wanting to give back uh in the
community. But I'm curious like what
motivates you now? You've had a bunch of
great hits. Um
like how do you stay curious? How do you
stay motivated? like is there something
that is you know the the deeper
underlying reason because some of it
could just be I love playing the game.
What a privilege.
I am more motivated by having an impact
on the world than the game or or which I
you didn't explicitly say it but sort of
the game of of money and fundraising all
that stuff. I that's great. I'm a I'm a
card carrying capitalist. It's a great
way to motivate people but
the only way
um
but I am motivated by the impact these
technologies have on society and you
know I had left Salesforce and Chat GBT
came out and and I like everyone else
you know was blown away and started
reading a bunch of research papers and
wondering like god where was I for the
past five years like you know I had to
realize all this was going on and uh
there's a Allen K quote which really
captures my mindset here, which is the
best way to predict the future is invent
it. Um, and I I could not like fathom
sitting on the sidelines while this
technology was impacting my life and not
helping shape it in some way. Um, so I'd
be doing it for free if I weren't
starting a company to do it. I or or,
you know, working with OpenAI. Um, I
just I just love this stuff. I mean,
it's so amazing. I mean, we've created
something that like just imagine showing
someone chat GPT2 today like four years
ago. I mean, it's the most science
fiction thing and we kind of just like
it happened. We're like, yeah, we passed
the touring test. No big deal. Let's
keep going. You know, and like it's
amazing. Like, and so to just
sit there and be like, I'm just going to
like watch it all happen. I'm like, no,
this is like I want to be in the middle
of it. I want to have debates with you
about memory and models and I want to
like I want to help shape the way this
technology impacts our lives and like
that's what it means to be a builder,
right? And so uh I just love this stuff.
Like I would do it for free. It's a
privilege to be able to do it for more
than free. Um and I just I just love it.
I mean I I couldn't agree more. I think
that this it's Silicon Valley is so much
more developed today in terms of the
game than it was two decades ago. But I
think if you just need to pause every
once in a while and just appreciate like
what we are building collectively. I
mean like like chat GPT like in the last
24 hours I asked it for you know uh like
you know some medical advice because you
know was dealing with some essentially
like shoulder pain. I asked it for some
legal advice uh you know all the things
and it's I was completely like yeah
these are great answers. this makes a
ton of sense. And if you had asked me
four years ago if this was a thing, I
would have been like, there's no system
that is capable of
Well, just imagine, you know, there was
this period where um if you'd been born
in like, I don't know, 1890 or
something, you could go from like the
development of electricity through like
putting someone on the moon in your
lifetime. Just imagine being alive
there. I might get the dates wrong, but
there was a period you're like, God,
imagine living that life, right? Like a
light bulb to moon landing. like we
might be in an era like that. You know,
we we brought the marginal cost of power
down, electricity, transportation. I
wouldn't say it's gone down quite as
far, but it's definitely gone down a
lot. And now we're going to bring the
marginal cost of intelligence down as
well. And I just don't know like I can't
imagine going to a room and not being
able to flip on a light switch and like
imagine years from now just being like,
of course there's a super intelligence
in my pocket. Like gosh, can you imagine
not having that? And that's the world
we're about to run into. And so that's
exciting to me and I um as you said it's
just like what a cool time to be alive
in my opinion.
So I'll end with this question before
maybe having a couple of questions from
the audience. Um but you know I think
it's it's a tricky time to to raise
children and to kind of like know how
best to in some ways educate and prepare
them from a for a world that might look
pretty different. So I know you have
three three children yourself. I have
three myself which is so h how do you
think about that like do you have a
framework do you have guiding kind of
principles there
you know there was a adage in in higher
education you go there to learn how to
learn um it had been sort of maligned as
the cost of higher education went up uh
you know it's like learn how to learn
and get a bunch of debt in the process
doesn't sound quite so you know
appealing um but I do think the
principle is roughly right I think
there's a danger to become sort of
oified in the tools that you use to use
your job. Uh I've used the metaphor, but
I like it, which is like if you're an
accountant and Microsoft Excel came into
existence in full maturity overnight,
how quick are you to abandon your HP
calculator and your binder and learn
pivot tables, right? And it's a very
different job at that point, but your
job of being an accountant is roughly
the same, but the way you do it has
changed dramatically as a software
engineer. you know that the the infamous
story of me rewriting Google maps like
that's no longer differentiated that's
not like a that's a cool story because
of the period in which it happened now
it's like how do you become the best
operator of a code generating machine
but you're still making products for
your customers it's just a very
different job so I think when you think
about raising children in this
environment uh I think I first of all I
have a ton of empathy for teachers my
sister's a public school teacher
everything is just doesn't contemplate
the existence of things like ChachiBT.
So like take-home essays, all these
things are just like not the right way
to judge progress anymore and that's
tough. So we was just in this awkward
phase of the technology exceeding the
systems that we use. But if you I
actually I don't know if the same but
like when I took the AP calculus test we
were able to use calculators. Um I
imagine
T89.
Yeah. T89 I think it's like the same
calculator now amusingly.
I I imagine the test changed you know
through that. I would be interested
someone who's like a history and AP test
like but they sort of said hey look like
a calculator is a calculator let's make
sure the AP exam and math doesn't like
advantage people for using a calculator
or maybe advantages people for using it
well but not like and I think so I
certainly think we haven't gone through
that transition but let's assume we sort
of figure all that out the question I
have is like how do you help people grow
as a person and how do you set up a
child to be successful in an age
surrounded by all these like incredible
uh tools tools and and and uh uh
powerful systems of intelligence.
I I feel more optimistic than many on
this. I think there's an MIT study
talking about people using I didn't I
don't know if it's a study. There's so
many things like on archive that aren't
reviewed. I have no idea. It could be
total BS, but I read it online. People
using chat GBT for something didn't
exercise part of their brain and and
we're all doomed or something.
Maybe, maybe not. Um I I am a optimistic
person. I'm very optimistic about
humanity. I think it will amplify
people's ambition. Uh, you know, if
you're a filmmaker or an aspiring
filmmaker, you probably can make
something as powerful as Inception in
terms of visual effects quality without
a lot of help or financing. Now, I think
that's really cool. Uh, if you're a
product designer, you can probably make
an app now without uh spending as much
money through, you know, what we call
vibe coding. I think that will go the
way of Ajax and information
superighhighway. We'll probably call it
something different in the future. Um, I
think all of this leverage that we're
giving to individuals is incredibly
powerful. I think it removes
gatekeepers. You know, if you have
someone with a vision, they don't need
as many people to give them permission
to, you know, affect change in the
world. Um, so I do think like anything
that amplifies ambition. Um, you know,
it can have the opposite effect and I
think we've we've, you know, seen that
in various parts of our economy. But I
also think there's great equalizing and
democratizing force with this technology
too. Um, you mentioned legal and medical
advice. That's really powerful for
people. I mean, both of us can afford
human medical advice, but that is a
widely available to anyone. Same with
legal advice. Same with a lot of other
financial advice.
So, I think there's a lot to be played
out here. And so, I always like to say
like with my children, it's like I'm
trying to teach them how to use these
tools in their everyday lives. uh not
crossing line with they're not thinking
but using it to sort of uh like when
we're walking around and they ask a
question we'll pull out chat TPT and and
have a conversation with it and it's a
way to expand their minds change the way
they think learns about a topic my
favorite example you're not quite to
this stage yet but my daughter came home
with Shakespeare and she asked me about
it I was like oh I was like I had this
Pavlovian like or this PTSD response
because I was just like not very good at
it the first time and we took a picture
put chat GPT and I was like and big
pentameter blah blah blah blah blah and
I was like this is saved my life I
didn't have to remember it as a parent
and it was so cool I mean we're chatting
about I don't remember which Shakespeare
uh play it was and so I want to create
that world and I think it's on all of us
to do so but I bring up the area of like
public school teachers and like kids
cheating on essays is we need to have a
ton of empathy for parents and teachers
right now and I think we need to like
really as technologists like participate
in these systems a little bit more
actively because uh banning this stuff
from schools is untenable because kids
will just cheat, you know, and but we
need to help like what does it mean to
teach someone, you know, uh competence
in in literature, comp reading
comprehension, which is still very
important in this world uh in a world
where these are available and I think we
just need to it's going to be an awkward
few years, but I'm very optimistic for
the future.
No, I love that answer. I mean, I think
that to kind of build upon that, I think
agency is something that you can
actually teach kids like a lot of what I
tell my kids and my kids are younger
than Brett is just these computers work
for you like you can make them do things
like you don't you know like they can do
a lot of things but you have to learn
how to use them and ultimately you're in
charge right but that is a message that
I think they need to hear. So you talk
about apply AI and building enterprise.
Um how do you build scalability in
enterprise software AI companies? Um for
example as startups you know seed or
series A you build cool demo you win the
contract. It could be a one million
could be multi-million
but it's it's easy to fall into the
pitfall of let me just build demos and
win contracts. And you know for example
in the Sierra
successful cases you probably have uh
your customer success agents your uh
customer agent is solving a lot of
problems but all the pro customer
problems are have slight variations. How
do you build commonality and scalability
in your company in your product uh so
that you don't fall into demo driven
sales and actually both scalability in
the activation and future long-term uh
enduring stage?
Yeah. Um as it relates to enterprise
software, I'm a big believer in industry
focus. Um, I think for this reason, uh,
if you talk to a
mid-market clothing retailer,
um, and you talk to 20 of them, they'll
have very similar, uh, business
problems. Uh, they probably have very
similar software stacks as well. Um, and
uh, if you talk to the four largest big
box retailers, they're different in
their own way, but they will have
similar shapes of problems with their
supply chain and fulfillment and all
these other things and their partners
and international distribution. If you
talk to the, you know, five biggest
property and casualty insurance
providers and you look at any part of
their business, whether it's the actuary
part of their business or their uh ERP
system or their customer experience or
claims processing, they'll look very
similar as well. So, one uh thing I like
to say with with enterprise software is
like you really want to like turn your
uh good tactics into great strategies
over time. So once you have one customer
so you can get two they look alike and
then make it 10 and then you have uh you
know you've you've done what you
accomplish there. I think it is as if
you're getting off the ground. Uh it
starts what I said is have a thesis
about where you're going and then from
first principles think about which
industries would probably benefit most
and then through the act of actually
trying to find success in that industry
validate and and question where your
your thesis was incomplete or incorrect
or imprecise and then with that you can
really you know grow um and I think most
like if you look at the large SAS
companies out there like Service Now SAP
Adobe Salesforce
etc. Shopify, they roughly followed a
pattern like this. Sometimes it was a
shape of a company, sometimes it was an
industry, but you know, I think you
really want to find customers that look
like other customers. One of the nuance
challenges if you're going from negative
one to zero as this place is is
really helpful if your first couple
customers are actually representative
and you can end up you know in this sort
of like unhappy culde-sac of uh where if
you end up with the wrong design
partners for your company that were
turned out not to be representative. I
say that because it's uh there's a bit
of an art form for your first five or so
customers to uh I think there's some
benefits to heterogeneity in those first
five customers just so that you don't
accidentally uh end up overfit for
something that turns out to be a smaller
market. Uh because most of the companies
I talked to that sort of got past escape
velocity, they'll have one company like,
"Yeah, I'm so glad we didn't only go
there." You know, there's everyone has
that the the anecdote around that. So my
suggestion is industries design partner
programs having some heterogeneity based
on a thesis and then replicate what
success you see in the market.
Yeah. I think one of the things based on
this conversation that we frankly you
know we've been working on kind of the
minus one methodology for the last 7 8
years and I don't actually think we're
sophisticated enough in terms of for
this set of founders who want to do more
structured discovery. I just don't think
we are great at knowing how to do that
well. So I think that's something that
we'll work on like you know how do you
enable some of those initial customer
conversations without overindexing on
the precise thing that they're asking
for. I think very few people know how to
do it well.
It's really hard.
Thank you Brett for coming by this.
That was another episode of minus one
from the team at South Park Commons.
Make sure to subscribe to our show
wherever you listen to podcasts and find
us on social at South Park Commons. And
thanks to our friends at Atomic Growth
for their support in bringing this
episode to